# SoftEtherVPN-RPM

Original project sources at: https://github.com/SoftEtherVPN/SoftEtherVPN/

I am unaffiliated with them. Any bugs in SoftEtherVPN should be reported there. Any bugs in my
spec file for building the RPM should probably be reported here.

## Install and run

If you just want to quickly install SoftEther VPN, I've uploaded RPMs on http://projects.thepoch.com/softether/ . Install the appropriate RPM. Then you can start the service as root:

    service vpnserver start

You can also have it start automatically:

    chkconfig vpnserver on

## Files

This project containts the following files to build an RPM of SoftEther VPN:

* SPEC/softethervpn.spec - The main spec file
* SOURCES/fix-makefiles.sh - Script that modifies the original makefiles so it properly makes with BUILDROOT.
* linux_??bit.mak - Makefiles modified using fix-makefiles.sh. You can replace these with the original from source, and rerun the script above.
* init.d/vpnserver - initscript
* scripts/* - scripts that are originally generated by the original makefiles.

## To Build on CentOS 6.x

As root, install the following packages:

    yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"
    yum -y install ncurses-devel openssl-devel readline-devel
    yum -y install rpmdevtools

As a regular user, create your rpmbuild directory structure:

    rpmdev-setuptree

Copy over the files from their respective directories in this repository into your rpmbuild directory. Then

    rpmbuild -ba SPECS/softethervpn.spec

The resulting RPM will be in the RPM directory. Install this as root:

    rpm -Uvh RPMS/`arch`/softethervpn-4*rpm

## Personal Notes

1. This is my first time creating a spec file, creating an RPM, etc. Apologies in advance for any mistakes.
2. This was tested using sources for version: **4.04.9412**. I'll try and update this as new versions come out.
3. Directory structures from source were retained. I may clean this up in the future given suggestions/feedback, and my gaining experience in creating an RPM.
4. When uninstalling, if you ran any of the SoftEtherVPN binaries, configuration and other files are generated in /usr/vpn*. So these directories will remain when you uninstall the RPM. You can delete these if you don't plan on using the configurations again.

Thanks,

Dex (@thepoch on Twitter)

